Physics was my first foray into the world around me. I wanted to be able to explain "why", not just observe and state "what". This is why a degree in physics was an obvious first route into academia. I enjoyed the challenges of the high mathematical content and worked hard at the weekly problems set, but I started to realise that the maths was not what inspired me. I recognised that what i found challenging was getting my hands dirty solving a problem that had been set to test our ingenuity. I enjoyed the lab session where we were faced with a new set of equipment which we had to learn how to use, get used to the software and use it to carry out the experiment. I enjoyed this form of trial and error combined with very knowledgeable people who were on hand to lend us just enough help so that we could complete the task ourselves.

Before I reached university, I had started to be intrigued by how computers really worked. It was a challenge to customise my old laptop to so that it looked and behaved just how I wanted while being as fast and responsive as possible. I quickly decided that a more open approach was needed and so began looking into the open source world of Linux. I installed multiple different distributions and enjoyed the challenge of sorting out a seemingly useless computer with no MBR and finding that it could be fixed with some simple tools.

When these two interests met, and I realised how much the open source approach was capable of, and that the academic world was readily making use of, researching and contributing back, I was surprised to find how useful many of the skills I had inadvertently taught myself were. By applying the skills I had learnt, I found that I was able to increase my work flow by easily login into my university user area via SSH and sharing and collaborating on relevant pieces of work with fellow group members via Git. I am excited that there is a largely unnoticed network behind the scenes that is keeping the advancement of academic research going. It is said that the internet was designed to ease the sharing of information within a group and has now grown into something much more useful and impressive, but I see that initial goal as the biggest and most important achievement. This is an amazing area of human achievement that has been made possible because of the work of computers and those that understand them.

After two years of being a physics undergraduate, I worked during the summer at the security and aerospace company, BAE Systems. Here, I was part of a team contracted to work for the communications company Three Mobile. I was involved in the development and maintenance of the website and webstore. My part in the team involved creating an application to aid the development of webpages by simplifying the task of cleaning cascading style sheet (CSS) files. I was told to use the Java language to achieve this, so started by investigating the task, understanding what would I would need to do, and then learning the Java language as I had no previous experience with this language. I thoroughly enjoyed this challenge which involved learning programming, web development and honed my team work and presentation skills and culminated in giving I gave a talk summarizing my work to senior members of the team and department.

By studying for a Masters in Computer Science, I hope to develop the interest and skills I have had a brief chance to explore in my Physics computing labs, and in the less structured world of experimentation. I hope to gain a deeper appreciation and knowledge of the underlying technologies and paradigms of modern computing, as well as a view of how these are being used in the work place where they play such an important role in so many areas.
